1. Many know that Gryffindor's ghost is Nearly Headless Nick.  But what is his full name?
Answer: Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington

Wrong Answers: Sir Nicholas Winton, Nicholas Nickles, Nicholas the Brave

Answer Factoid: Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington, known after his death as Nearly Headless Nick, (d. 31 October, 1492) was a wizard who attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and was Sorted into Gryffindor House. He was a wizard of the royal court as an adult. He was executed by an improper decapitation, after he had a magical mishap with Lady Grieve, in which he tried to straighten her teeth but it backfired and she grew tusks. Since then, he is the resident ghost of Gryffindor Tower at the Hogwarts Castle.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington

Answer Image: NickGryffindorTable.jpg


2. Monkshood and wolfsbane are the same plant, also known as what?
Answer: Aconite

Wrong Answers: Devil's Snare, Shrivelfig, Mimbulus Mimbletonia

Answer Factoid: Aconite (also known as monkshood or wolfsbane) is a plant with magical properties. Once widespread, this plant is now only found in wild places. Its flowers are useful in potion-making, but its leaves are very toxic. Aconite is most commonly known as an ingredient of Wolfsbane Potion.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Aconite

Answer Image: snape_teaching.jpg

3. New students need to learn the secrets of the castle. How many staircases does Hogwarts have?
Answer: 142

Wrong Answers: 57, 12, 287

Answer Factoid: Stairs at Hogwarts are not straightforward. The 142 staircases vary in shape, size and destination. There are wide ones, narrow ones, some with vanishing steps and others that lead somewhere different on a Friday. Not helpful when you’re trying to stick to a timetable.

Answer URL: https://www.pottermore.com/features/everything-a-first-year-should-know-about-hogwarts

Answer Image: hogwarts_staircases.jpg

4. Which ingredient is NOT needed to make Polyjuice potion?
Answer: Mandrake root

Wrong Answers: leeches, powdered Bicorn horn, knotgrass

Answer Factoid: Polyjuice Potion is a potion that allows the drinker to assume the form of someone else. It's a complicated and challenging potion that even adult witches and wizards struggle to brew correctly. The potion is incredibly advanced and has two separate parts that contain steps for each part, when brewing is complete the potion has to stew for a month before usage.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Polyjuice_Potion

Answer Image: hermoine_polyjuice.jpg

5. Quidditch players are constantly at risk of injury throughout the game. How many possible Quidditch fouls are there?
Answer: 700

Wrong Answers: 5987, 239, 1283

Answer Factoid: There are seven hundred Quidditch fouls listed in the Department of Magical Games and Sports records, though the entire list has never been made public (it was the department's view that some wizards and witches "might get ideas"). 90% of these are banned anyway, by the rule concerning wand use against the opposing team (or rather, lack thereof) and the remaining 10% would not occur even to the dirtiest player. There are, however, 11 common fouls.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Quidditch

Answer Image: quidditch.jpg

6. In "The Sorcerer’s Stone," Harry and his friends are awarded last-minute House Points, putting Gryffindor ahead of Slytherin by just 10 points. What was the final tally?
Answer: 482 to 472

Wrong Answers: 597 to 587, 282 to 272, 407 to 397

Answer Factoid: Harry's first year at Hogwarts was the first time in seven years that Slytherin failed to win the house cup.  Gryffindor earned 482 points to Slytherin's 472.  Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff earned 426 and 352 points, respectively.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/1991%E2%80%931992_school_year

Answer Image: house_cup.jpg

7. Ever the eccentric, Dumbledore claimed to have a scar above his left knee that is a perfect map of what?
Answer: The London Underground

Wrong Answers: The Canary Islands, The Forest of Dean, Diagon Alley

Answer Factoid: Dumbledore wore half-moon spectacles and a colorful array of robes, ranging from purple to crimson-red. He once claimed to have a scar above his left knee in the precise shape of a map of the London Underground, but whether or not he actually did is unknown. His demeanor was often — if not always — serene and ethereal, and he usually spoke in a calm, pleasant voice even when Harry thought that he was actually furious.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Albus_Dumbledore

Answer Image: dumbledore.jpg

8. Where does Vernon Dursley work?
Answer: Grunnings

Wrong Answers: Grimmaulds, Grayberry, Ginterly

Answer Factoid: Vernon Dursley was a Muggle, husband of Petunia Evans, father of Dudley and uncle of Harry Potter by marriage.  He was a former student of Smeltings Academy and a director of the Grunnings drill manufacturing company.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Vernon_Dursley

Answer Image: dursleys.jpg

9. For Harry's seventeenth birthday, what color did Hermione turn the leaves of the Weasley’s crabapple tree?
Answer: Gold

Wrong Answers: Silver, Red, Yellow

Answer Factoid: For a dinner in celebration of Harry's 17th birthday, Fred and George bewitched a number of purple lanterns with "17" on them to hang above the kitchen and Hermione conjured purple and gold streamers to be draped around the trees and bushes, and turned a crabapple tree to gold.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Harry_Potter%27s_seventeenth_birthday

Answer Image: harry-birthday-cake.jpg

10. Cedric Diggory let Harry use the prefects' bathroom in "The Goblet of Fire." What man's statue is next to the special lavatory?
Answer: Boris the Bewildered

Wrong Answers: Salazar Slytherin, Wilfred the Wistful, Lachlan the Lanky

Answer Factoid: The Prefects' Bathroom is a special bathroom on the fifth floor of Hogwarts restricted to use by school Prefects, Head Boys, Head Girls and Quidditch captains. It is located on the fifth floor behind the fourth door to the left of a statue of Boris the Bewildered, which only opens when given the correct password.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Prefects%27_Bathroom

Answer Image: harry_prefects_bathroom.jpg

11.What is the stated speed of a firebolt broomstick?
Answer: at least 150 mph

Wrong Answers: around 200 knots, approximately 300 kph, nearly 600 meters per second

Answer Factoid: The Firebolt is a world-class broomstick. It was the fastest at the time of its production, and was released in 1993. In time the Firebolt broomstick was used by the Bulgarian and Irish International Quidditch Teams. The teams played on Firebolts during the 1994 Quidditch World Cup.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Firebolt

Answer Image: firebolt.jpg

12. Harry first took the Knight Bus in "The Prisoner of Azkaban." How much does a hot chocolate on the Knight Bus cost?
Answer: 15 Sickles

Wrong Answers: 2 knuts, half a galleon, 50 cents

Answer Factoid: A Sickle or Silver-Sickle (SickleSymbol) is a form of currency in the wizarding world that is made out of silver. One Sickle is equal to 29 Knuts, and 17 Sickles make up a Galleon.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Sickle

Answer Image: potter_vault.jpg

13. In the Hall of Prophecy there are rows and rows of glowing orbs. Which row contains the prophecy about Harry and Voldemort?
Answer: Row 97

Wrong Answers: Row 36, Row 58, Row 82

Answer Factoid: The Hall of Prophecy is a chamber within the Department of Mysteries, on Level nine of the Ministry of Magic in London, England. It features shelves containing records of prophecies, though many of these records, if not all, were destroyed when part of a battle between Death Eaters and Dumbledore's Army members occurred in the Hall in 1996. Its existence was long rumoured within the general wizarding community, but never confirmed by the Ministry itself until 1996.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Hall_of_Prophecy

Answer Image: prophecy.jpg

14. In the Quidditch World Cup, which chaser scored the first goal for Ireland?
Answer: Troy

Wrong Answers: Mullet, Moran, Krum

Answer Factoid: The 422nd Quidditch World Cup final was held on 25 August, 1994 in England, between Ireland and Bulgaria. Ludovic Bagman provided the match commentary. Ireland wore green robes with each player's name embroidered in silver on their back. They all flew Firebolt broomsticks and Leprechauns served as the team's mascots. Veela were Bulgaria's mascots and they played in robes of scarlet.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/1994_Quidditch_World_Cup

Answer Image: quidditch_ireland.jpg

15. On the wall across from the Room of Requirement, there is a tapestry showing a wizard trying to teach trolls ballet. What's his name?
Answer: Barnabus the Barmy

Wrong Answers: Wilfred the Wistful, Lachlan the Lanky, Boris the Bewildered

Answer Factoid: The Room of Requirement is located on the seventh floor in the left corridor of the Hogwarts castle and has a hidden entrance opposite the tapestry depicting the attempt of Barnabas the Barmy to teach trolls ballet. The way to open the room is to walk past it three times thinking about what you need, and the door will appear.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Room_of_Requirement

Answer Image: roomofrequirement.jpg

16. The visitor’s entrance to the Ministry of Magic is an abandoned red telephone booth in London. What is the five-digit code you must dial to get in?
Answer: 6-2-4-4-2

Wrong Answers: 5-6-6-2-5, 3-8-9-4-3, 2-1-1-9-7

Answer Factoid: The Ministry of Magic uses a telephone booth as the visitor's entrance. The booth transports visitors from ground level to the Atrium on floor B8. To activate the entrance, one dials 62442 (spelling "magic") on the telephone.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Telephone_booth

Answer Image: phone_booth.jpg

17. Voldemort stole Helga Hufflepuff's cup from an old woman named Hepzibah Smith.  What was the name of her house-elf?
Answer: Hokey

Wrong Answers: Winky, Dobby, Kreacher

Answer Factoid: After Hepzibah's death, Hokey was accused of poisoning her mistress's evening cocoa. However, it was actually Tom Riddle who poisoned Hepzibah (in order to steal Helga Hufflepuff's Cup and Salazar Slytherin's Locket).

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Hokey

Answer Image: hokey.jpg

18. Ginny Weasley bought a pet Pygmy Puff from her older brothers' joke shop.  What did she name it?
Answer: Arnold

Wrong Answers: Florean, Gilderoy, Elphias

Answer Factoid: The Puffskein is easy to care for, and they emit a low humming sound when they are content. A group of Puffskeins or Pygmy Puffs is referred to as a poffle. Shaved (or trimmed with a clipper) Puffskein hair has magical properties, and is useful as a potion ingredient, such as in Zygmunt Budge's variation of the Laughing Potion which requires a few handfuls.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Puffskein

Answer Image: ginnypygmypuff.jpg

19. What is Fred Weasley's chosen code name on Potterwatch, the secretive radio program set up by the Order of the Phoenix?
Answer: Rapier

Wrong Answers: River, Royal, Romulus

Answer Factoid: Potterwatch was a pirate radio program hosted by Lee Jordan for those who rebelled against Lord Voldemort and supported Harry Potter during the height of the Second Wizarding War. Fred Weasley co-hosted; Remus Lupin and Kingsley Shacklebolt both appeared on Potterwatch. Each contributor to the show used a codename while on air to protect their identity, but those who knew the individuals could generally tell who was speaking. Every known codename starts with the letter 'R'.

Answer URL: http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Potterwatch

Answer Image: fred_weasley.jpg
